feat: Redoing home and moving getting started to actors/running and actors/development sections (#542)
apify/apify-docs: sources/platform/actors/running/store.md

---

> > Anyone is welcome to [publish actors](/platform/actors/publishing) in the store, and you can even [monetize your actors](/platform/actors/publishing/monetize) by renting them out to users of the platform. For more information about how to monetize your actor, best practices and SEO and promotion tips and tricks, head over to the [Getting the most of your public actors on Apify Store](/academy/get-most-of-actors) section of the Apify Developers Academy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Anyone is welcome to [publish Actors](/platform/actors/publishing) in the store, and you can even [monetize your Actors](/platform/actors/publishing/monetize) by renting them out to users of the platform. For more information about how to monetize your Actor, best practices, SEO, and promotion tips and tricks, head over to the [Getting the most of your public Actors in the Apify Store](/academy/get-most-of-actors) section of the Apify Developers Academy.
```

> Some actors are free to use (you will be charged only for the Apify platform usage), while the others are paid with different pricing models. This page will explain to you all the approaches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some Actors are free to use (you will be charged only for the Apify platform usage), while others are paid with different pricing models. This page explains all the options.
```

### Free actors

> When you use a free actor you are only charged the platform usage the runs of this actor generate. [Platform usage](./usage_and_resources.md) includes components such as compute units, operations on [storages](/platform/storage), and usage of [residential proxies](/platform/proxy/residential-proxy) or [SERPs](/platform/proxy/google-serp-proxy). You can find the details of your actor usage on the run detail page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use a free Actor, you are only charged for the platform usage that the runs of this Actor generates. [Platform usage](./usage_and_resources.md) includes components such as compute units, operations on [storages](/platform/storage), and usage of [residential proxies](/platform/proxy/residential-proxy) or [SERPs](/platform/proxy/google-serp-proxy). You can find the details of your Actor usage on the run detail page.
```

![Example run usage](./images/store/example_run_usage.png)

> > With this model, it's very easy to see how many platform resources each actor run consumed, but it is quite difficult to estimate their usage beforehand. The best approach to find the costs of free actors upfront is to try out the actor on a limited scope, for example on a small number of pages, and evaluate the consumption. You can easily do that using our [free plan](https://apify.com/pricing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> With this model, it's very easy to see how many platform resources each Actor run consumed, but it is quite difficult to estimate their usage beforehand. The best way to find the costs of free Actors upfront is to try out the Actor on a limited scope (for example, on a small number of pages) and evaluate the consumption. You can easily do that using our [free plan](https://apify.com/pricing).
```

![Paid Actors free trial](./images/store/paid-actors-trial.png)

> After a trial, a flat monthly **actor rental** fee that is automatically charged from your prepaid platform usage in advance for the following month. This fee goes directly to the developer and it is paid on the top of the platform usage generated by the actor. You can read more about our motivation we released paid actors in [this blog post](https://blog.apify.com/make-regular-passive-income-developing-web-automation-actors-b0392278d085/) from Apify's CEO Jan Čurn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a trial, a flat monthly **Actor rental** fee is automatically charged from your prepaid platform usage in advance for the following month. This fee goes directly to the developer, and it is paid on top of the platform usage generated by the Actor. You can read more about our motivation for releasing paid Actors in [this blog post](https://blog.apify.com/make-regular-passive-income-developing-web-automation-actors-b0392278d085/) from Apify's CEO Jan Čurn.
```

### Actors paid per result

> When you run an actor that is **paid per result**, you only pay for the successful results that an actor returns when you run it, and you are not charged for the underlying platform usage. Technically, we validate the **results** against a schema, and you are only charged for the valid items in the [dataset](https://docs.apify.com/platform/storage/dataset) of the actor run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run an Actor that is **paid per result**, you only pay for the successful results that an Actor returns when you run it, and you are not charged for the underlying platform usage. Technically, we validate the **results** against a schema, and you are only charged for the valid items in the [dataset](https://docs.apify.com/platform/storage/dataset) of the Actor run.
```
